3 cups risotto-style rice
2 quart low-sodium chicken broth
2 cup white wine (optional—can be replaced with extra broth)
2lbsish of whatever mushrooms, sliced or chopped depending on the mushie

4 tablespoons butter (plus more for finishing if desired)
4 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil
4 medium cloves garlic, grated on a microplane grater (about 2 teaspoons)
4 small shallots, finely minced (about 2 tablespoons)
1.5 cup heavy cream, whipped to stiff peaks
6 ounces finely grated parmesan

Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper
Chopped herbs or other garnishes, as desired






1. Combine rice, chicken stock, and wine in a large bowl. Agitate rice with fingers or a whisk to release starch. Strain through a fine mesh strainer set in a 2-quart liquid cup measure or other large bowl. Allow to drain five minutes, stirring rice occasionally.

2. Heat oil and butter in a large saucepan over high heat until shimmering. Add button and baby bella mushrooms, season with salt and pepper, and cook, stirring occasionally, until well browned, about 8 minutes. Add rehydrated porcini and continue to cook, stirring occasionally, until liquid is evaporated, about 2 minutes.


3. In the same pan, add rice and cook, stirring and tossing frequently until all liquid is evaporated, fat is bubbling, and rice has begun to take on a golden blond color and nutty aroma, about 5 minutes. Add garlic and shallots and continue to cook, stirring frequently until aromatic, about 1 minute. Give reserved broth a good stir and pour all but one cup over the rice. Increase heat to high and heat until simmering. Stir rice once, cover, and reduce heat to lowest possible setting.

3. Cook rice for ten minutes undisturbed. Stir once, shake pan gently to redistribute rice, cover, and continue cooking until liquid is mostly absorbed and rice is tender with just a faint bite, about 10 minutes longer.

4. Remove lid and add final cup of liquid. Increase heat to high and cook, stirring and shaking rice constantly until thick and creamy. Off heat, fold in heavy cream and cheese. Season to taste with salt and pepper and stir in herbs as desired. Serve immediately on hot plates. 